Machine Learning Course

1) Introduction to Machine Learning Full Course
2) Agenda of Machine Learning Full Course
3) What is Machine Learning?
4) Supervised Machine Learning
5) Un-Supervised Machine Learning
6) Reinforcement Machine Learning
7) How to become a Machine Learning Engineer?
8) Machine Learning Algorithms
9) Linear Regression Algorithm
10)What is Linear Regression?
11)Linear Regression Use Cases
12)Use Case - How to Implement Linear Regression using Python.
13)Logistic Regression Algorithm
14)Logistic Regression Use Cases
15)Linear Regression vs Logistic Regression
16)Decision Tree Algorithm
17)Types of Classification
18)What is Decision Tree?
19)What is Pruning?
20)Hands-on
21)Random Forest
22)Working of Random Forest
23)Splitting methods
24)Advantages and Disadvantages of Random Forest
25)Hands-on Random Forest
26)KNN Algorithm
27)Features of the KNN Algorithm
28)How KNN works?
29)Hands-on KNN Algorithm
30)Naive Bayes Classifier
31)Support Vector Machine
32)How do SVM work?
33)K-Means Clustering Algorithm
34)K Means Clustering
35)Agglmerative Clustering
36)Division Clustering
37)Mean Shift Clustering
38)Hierarchical Clustering
39) How Agglomerative Clustering Works?
40)Applications of Hierarchical Clustering
41)Apriori Algorithm Explained
42)Demo of the Algorithm Explained
43)Linear Algebra Application
44)Probability
45)Statistics
46)Types of Statistics
47)How to select the correct predictive modeling Techniques?
48)ML Model Deployment with Flask on Heroku
49)Azure Machine Learning
50)AWS Machine Learning
51)Machine Learning Engineer Skills
52)Machine Learning Engineer Job Trend, Salary & Resume
53)Top Machine Learning Tools & Frameworks
54)Machine Learning Roadmap
55)Machine Learning Interview Questions & Ansers

1.What is Machine Learning?
Machine Learning is a subset of artificial intelligence. It focuses mainly on the designing of systems. Thereby, allowing them to learn and make predictions based on some experiences which is data in the case of the machine.
2. Artificial Intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning
AI : A technique which enables machines to mimic human Behaviour.
ML : Subset of AI technique which use statistical methods to enable Machines to imporve with experiences.
DL : Subset of ML which make the computations of multi-layer neural network feasible.
3.How does Machine Learning Work?
Training Data=>Train the ML Algorithm => Model Input Data => New Input Data => ML Algorithm => Prediction
ML model are trained used labeled and unlabeled dataset to produce the successful model. The prediction is evaluated for the accuracy and if the accuracy is acceptable then the Machine Learning Model is deployed. Now if the accuracy of the model is not acceptable then the machine learning model is trained again and again with the augmented training data set.
5. Machine Learning Types: Supervised, Unsupervised and Reinforcement.
Supervised Learning : 
Supervised Learning Algorithms: Linear Regression, Random Forest, Support Vector Machines
Usecases of Supervised Machine Learning: Cortana,Weather Prediction, Biometric Attendance, Supervised Learning in Bank Predict Credit Wrthiness of Credit Card Holders, Supervised Learning in Healthcare : Predict Patient Readmission Rates, Supervised Learning in Retail Analyse Products Custmers Buy Together.

Unsupervised Learning:
Unsupervised Learning Algorithms: Apriori Algorithm, K-Means Algorithm, Hierarchical Clustering
Usecases of Unsupervised Learning: Unsupervised Learning in Bang Segment Customers by Behaviural , Characteristics, Unsupervised Learning in Healthcare Categorize MRI Data by Normal  or Abnormal images. It uses the Deep Learning Technique that learn from model to learn the various information from the various images.
Unsupervised Learning in Retail Recommend Products to Customers on the basis of Past Purchase
Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement Learning is a type of Machine Learning Algorithm which allows software agents and machines to automatically determing the idal behaviour on the basis of a particular Context to Maximize its performance. Reinforcement Learning is about the interaction between Learning Agent and Environment.The envioronment rewards the Learning Agent for the correct actiona and punishes for the wrong action.
Reinforcement Training with Dog: Pablo trained Dog with the Reinforcement Learning.
Reinforcement Usecases: Reinforcement Learning in Bank create "Next Best Offer" Model for the Call Centre. Reinforcement Learning in Healthcare Allocate Scarce Medical Resources to Handel Different ER Cases.
Reinforcement Learning in Retail Reduce Excess Stock with Dynamic Pricing

Data Science vs Machine Learning
What is Data Science?
Data Science is the Process of extracting useful insights from data by using a variety of tools, algorithms and Machine Learning Fundamentals.
Programming + Statistics + Business = Data Science Domains
Fields of Data Science
Data Science is the Extraction of knowledge from data by using different techniques and algorithms.
Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning
Deep Learning

Use Case: Recommendation System

1) Business Requirements
2) Data Acquisition
    User Ratings
    Comments
    Cart History
3) Data Processing
    Missing Values
    Fake Reviews
    Unnecessary Data
4) Data Exploration
    Understand Pattern
    Retrieve useful insights

5) Data Modelling
    Find Optimal Features
    Build and Evaluate Machine Learning Model
    Import Data
    Data Cleaning
    Build Model
    Train Model
    Test Model
    Improve Efficiency
    
6) Data Optimization
    Monitor the performance of the model

Who is a Machine Learning (ML) Engineer?
Machine Learning Engineers are sophisticated programmers who develop machines and systems that can learn and apply knowledge without any specific direction.

What does an ML Engineer do?
Machine Learning Engineers are creators f the algorithms that allow a machine to find patterns in its own programming data, teaching it to understand commands and even think for itself.

Skills Needed to Become an ML Engineers

Programming Skills

R : Used for developing Statistical Software and Data Analysis.
Python : Lets you Create, Analyse and Organize large chunks of Data with ease.
Java Programming : Data Description

Probability and Statistics

A Formal Characterization of Probability & Statistics derived from it are at the heart of many Machine Learning Algorithms.
Mean, Median, Variations

Data Modelling and Evaluation

Data Modelling is the process of estimating the underlying structure of a given dataset, with the goal of finding useful patterns and/or predicting properties of previously unseen instances.

Applying Machine Learning Algorithms and Libraries

Standard Implementations of Machine Learning Algorithm are widely available through libraries/packages/APIs.

Software Engineering and System designing

You need to understand how different pieces of the software work together. Communication with them & build appropriate interfaces for your component that others will depend on.

Roles & Responsibilites of an ML Engineer
    Study some Prototypes & Transform them into Applications
    Design and Build Machine Learning systems
    Find Appropriate Algorithms and Tools
    Develop Machine Learnig Applications
    Select the right dataset & find the correct Data Representation methods
    Run Machine Learning Tests and Experiments
    Train the Systems for the Top-Notch accuracy

Salary & Trends of an ML Engineer
    The average salary for an ML Engineer in India is Rs.689,460.
    The average salary for an ML Engineer in USA is $112,448

Companies Hiring the ML Engineers
    Apple
    Facebook
    Accenture
    Salesforce
    Uber
    Microsoft

Future of Machine Learning
    The world is unquestionably changing in rapid and drastic ways. and the demand for the Machine Learning Engineers is going to keep increasing exponentially.

Machine Learning Algorithm
    Classification Algorithm
    Category is predicted using the data.
    Is the person a male or a female?
    Is the mail spam or non-spam?

    Anomaly Detection Algorithm
    Identify unusual data points
    Is there any fraud in this transaction?
    Is someone trying to hack our network?

    Clustering Algorithm
    Groups data based on some Condition
    Which type of house lies in this segment?
    Which types of customers buys this product?

    Regression Algorithm
    Data itself is predicted
    What is the market value of this house?
    Is it going to rain tomorrow or not?

    Let's Learn to code.

    Iris Dataset
Linear Regression Algorithm
What is Regression in Machine Learning?
    The main goal f regression is the construction of an efficient model to predict the dependent attributes from a bunch of attribute variables. A regression problem is when the output variable is either real or a continuous value i.e. salary, weight, area, etc.
    We can also define rgression as a statistical means that is used in applications like housing, investing, etc. It is used to predict the relationship between a dependent value and a bunch of independent variables.
Types of Regression
    Simple Linear Regression
    Polynomial Regression
    Random Forest Regression
    Decision Tree Regression
    Support Vector Regression

Simple Linear Regression: One of the most interesting and common regression technique is simple linear regression. In this, we predict the outcome of a dependent variable based on the independent variables, the relationship between the variables is linear.
Polynomial Regression: In this regression technique, we transform the original features into polynomial features of a given degree and then perform the regression on it.
Support Vector Machine Regression: For the Support Vector Machine Regression or SVR, we identify a hyperplane with maximum margin such that the maximum number of data points are within those margins. It is quite similar to the support vector machine Classification algorithm.
Decision Tree Regression: A decision tree can be used for both regression and classification, we use the ID3 algorithm(Iterative Dichotomiser 3) to identify the splitting the node by reducing the standard deviation.
Random Forest Regression: In Random Forest Regression, we ensemble the predictions of several decision tree regressions.

What is Linear Regression?
    Simple Linear Regression is a regression technique in which the independent variable has a linear relationship with the dependent variable. The straight line in the diagram is the best fit line.
    e.g. Car Resale Value all the factors connect with Price of Car.
    Linear Regression Terminologies
     Cost Function: The cost function provides the best possible values for b0 and b1 to make the best fit line for the data points. We do it by converting this problem into a minimization problem to get the best values of b0 and b1. The error is minimized in this problem between the actual value and the predicted value.
     Y = b0 + b1x +e
     where, Y=Dependent Variables
            b0= Y intercept
            b1 = slope
            x = independent Variables
            e = error

      Gradient Descent: It is a method of updating b0 and b1 values to reduce the MSE. The idea behind this is to keep iterating the b0 and b1 values until we reduce the MSE to the minimum.
      A smaller learning rate takes closer to the minimum, but it takes more time and in case of a larger learning rate. The time taken is sooner but there is a chance to overshoot the minimum value.
      Big Learning Rate
      Small Learning Rate.

Advantages and Disadvantages of Linear Regression
Advantages:
Linear Regression performs exceptionally well for the linearly seperable data.
Easier to implement, interpret and efficient to train.
It handles overfitting well using dimensionally reduction techniques, regularization, and cross-validation.
One more advantage is the extrapolation beyond a specific data set.

Disadvantages:
The assumption of linearly between dependent and independent variables.
It is often quite prone to noise and overfitting.
Linear Regression is quite sensitive to outliers.
It is prone to multicollinearity.

Linear Regression Use Cases
    Sales Forcasting
    Risk Analysis
    Housing Applications
    Finance Applications

Use Case - How to Implement the Linear Regression Using Python

Loading the Data
Extracting the Data
Slicing the Data
Train and Split Data
Generate the Model
Evaluate the Accuracy

Logistic Regression : What and Why?

Logistic Regression produces results in a binary format which is used to predict the outcome of a categorical dependent Variable. So, the outcome should be discrete/categrical such as:
0 or 1
Yes or No
True or False 
High and Low

Why not Linear Regression?

Since our value of Y will be between 0 and 1, the linear line has to be clipped at 0 or 1.
With this, our resulting curve can not be formulated into a single formula. Hence, we came up with Logistic.

Logistic Regression Curve = The Sigmoid "S" Function Curve
With this, the threshld value indicates the probability of either winning or losing.
The Logistic Regression Equation is derived from the Straight Line Equation.
Equation of Straight Line = y = mx + c 
Range is from -(infinity) to (infinity)

Equation of the straight line = 
Y = C + B1X1 + B2X2 +......... (RANGE IS FROM -(INFINITY) TO (INFINITY))

Let's try to reduce the Logistic Regression Equation from the Straight Line Equation

Y = C + B1X1 + B2X2 + ........ (In Logistic Equation Y can be only from 0 to 1)

Now, to get the range of Y between 0 and infinity, let's transform y
Y/1-Y  = Y = 0 then 0
Y = 1 then infinity
Now, the range is between 0 to infinity
Final Logistic Regression Equation

Logistic Regression Use - Cases
Weather Prediction
Classification Problems
Determines Illness

Implement Logistic Regression
    Collecting Data
    Analyzing Data
    Data Wrangling
    Train & Test
    Accuracy Check

Linear Regression VS Logistic Regression

Definition:
Linear Regression: To predict a continuous dependent variable based on values of independent variables.
Logistic Regression: To predict a categorical dependant variable based on values of independent variables.

Variable Type:
Linear Regression: Continuous dependant variable
Logistic Regression: Categorical dependant Variable.

Estimation Method:
Linear Regression : Least square Estimation
Logistic Regression: Maximum like-hood Estimation

Equation:
Linear Regression: Y=b0 + b1x +e
Logistic Regression : log(Y/1-Y) = C + B1X1 +B2X2 + .......

Best Fit Line :
Linear Regression : Straight Line
Logistic Regression: Curve

Relationship between DV & IV :
Linear Regression : Linear relationship between the dependent and independent variable.
Logistic Regression: Linear relationship is not mandatory

Output:
Linear Regression: Predicted integer value
Logistic Regression: Predicted binary value (0 or 1)

Applications:
Linear Regression: Business domain, forecasting salses.
Logistic Regression: Classification problems, cybersecurity, image processing

Decision Tree Algorithm

What is Classification?

Note: It adds the data point to a particular labelled group on the basis of some conditions.
Classification is the process of dividing the datasets into different categories  or groups by adding label.

Two Types of Supervised Machine Learning

Regression based Supervised Machine Learning : What you want to predict is continuous in nature.
Classification based Supervised Machine Learning : What you want to predict is discrete in nature.

Types of Classification

Decision Tree
Random Forest
Naive Bayes
KNN

Decision Tree:
Graphical representation of all the possible solutions to a decision.
Decisions are based on some conditions
Decision made can be easily Explained

Am I hungry? Yes or No

Random Forest:
Builds multiple decision trees and merges them together
More accurate and stable prediction
Random decision forests correct for decision trees habit of overfitting to their training set
Trained with the "bagging" method

Naive Bayes:
Classification Technique based on Bayes's Theorem and Bayes's Theorem is based on the Conditional Probability.
We decide whether something happen or not on the basis or probability.
Assumes that the presence of a particular feature in a class is unrelated to the presence of any other feature.

K-Nearest Neighbors:
Stores all the available cases and classifies new cases based on a similarity measure.
The "K" in KNN algorithm is the nearest neighbours we wish to take vote from.

What is Decision Tree?
A Decision Tree is a graphical representation of all the possible solutions to a decision based on certain conditions.

Decision Tree: Should I accept a new job offer or not?
We would start with the root node i.e. What is the Salary I am getting?
Decision Tree keep on splitting until we are able to find the solutions of our problem and the decision is taken successfully?

Understanding Decision Tree

Decisoin Tree Terminologies

Pruning: Opposite of Splitting, basically removing unwanted branches from the tree.

Branch/Sub Tree : Formed by splitting the tree/node

Parent/Child Node: 
Root Node is the parent node and all the other nodes branched from it is known as child node.

Splitting : Splitting is dividing the root node/sub node into different parts on the basis of some cnditions.

Root Node : It represents the entire population or sample and this further gets divided into two or more homogeneous sets.

Leaf Node : Node can not further segregated into further nodes.

Let's First Visualize the Decision Tree
Let us check it with a Question: Whether I would play the Cricket Match or not today?
Outlook => Humidity=> High or Normal / Windy=> Strong or Weak

How does a Tree Decide Where to Split?
Gini Index: The measure of impurity or purity used in building decision tree in CART is Gini Index.
Information Gain: The information gain is the decrease in entropy after a dataset is split on the basis of an attribute. Constructing a decision tree is all about finding attribute that returns the highest inforamtion gain.
Chi Square: It is an algorithm to find out the stastical significance between the differences between sub-nodes and parent node.
Reduction in Variance: Reduction in variance is an algorithm used for continuous target variables (regression problems). The split with lower variance is selected as the criteria to split the population.

What is Entropy?
Defines randomness in the data.
Entropy is just a metric which measures the impurity or
The first step to solve the problem of a decision Tree.

How we would build the Decisoin Tree?

Step1) Compute the entropy for the Data set
Step2) Which Node to Select As Root Node: Outlook
We need to calculate the Information Gain, If the value of the Information Gain is more then it means that particular value would be lot helpful in predicting the case.
If the Inforamtion Gain is higher for a particular feature, then that feature would be the root node for me.
Hence, This is How your final complete Tree will Look like

Are tree based models better than the Linear Model?

Scikit-Learn Algorithm Cheat Sheet

Regression
Classification
Clustering
Dimnensionality Reduction

Random Forest

What is Random Forest?
Random Forest is constructed using multiple decisoin trees and the final decisoin is obtained by majority votes of the decision trees.
Majrity voting of the various Decision trees
For Classification problems, it depends on the voting technique.
For Regression Problems, it depends on finding the mean.

Important Terms in Random Forest

Root Node = Training Data Set is fed at the root node.
Splitting = Gini and entropy methods to decide the optimal split.
Decision Nodes = Provides the link to the leaf nodes
Lead-Node = End point and no further division takes place.

Working of Random Forest

Random Sampling with replacement
Ensemble technique used bootstrap aggregation/bagging
How feature selection is done in classification and regression problems.
The best split is chosen based on Gini Impurity or Information Gain Methods.

Random Sampling with replacement
